Network Test Suites:

NOTE: Some manual setups are required on the peer host in order to run these test property.  

Test scripts are provided to automate network load testing and to capture relevent metrics. Matrics are 
periodically dumped to graphite server.

netBW.pl: Measures network bandwidth or throughput of instance.	Message size equals to the default socket buffer size. AWS throttles network outbound traffic. This test validates if the instance is achieving amazon advertise 
network bandwidth limit. Higher number is better.

   Metric: bandwidth in MB
   Requirment: peer should have netserver process running on an open port e.g: 7101: $ sudo netserver -p 7101


netTPS.pl: Measures network latency by sending small payload of 1 byte at a time. It measures number of trasactions completed per second. There can be only one transaction pending at any time. Higher number of transactions (TPS) is better representing lower network latency	

  Metric: TPS (Trasactions Per Second)
  Requirments: peer should have netserver process running on an port e.g: 7101: $ sudo netserver -p 7101

pingRTT.pl: Measure network latency by using adoptive ping that adopts to RTT. There can only be one unanswered probe pending at any time. Lower value (RTT) is better representing lower network latency

  Metric: Time in ms
  Requirements: no additional setup required.

memcached.pl: Open source memcached client "mcblaster" is used to warm up the memcached server cache with 2 Million 100 bytes records. mcblaster client then performs 70k gets/sec transactions to measure latencies. At the end of test, transactions completed within 1-10 ms are bucketed in 1ms increments. Tests showing higher number of gets operations in low latency buckets is better.

  Metric: buckets representing latencies in ranages from 1 ms to over 10 ms
  Requirements:
  - Peer host should have memcached installed and running on an open port, .e.g: 7002. 

    $sudo apt-get -y install memcached
    $sudo memcached -p 7002 -u nobody -c 32768 -o slab_reassign slab_automove -I 2m -m 59187 -d -l 0.0.0.0

